---
layout: post
title: Scholarship Workshop
author: Joshua Meyers
---

The following is my latest concept for this project.  It has changed a
lot in the last few years of thinking.  I think this can really happen
next summer, and I'm going to do all I can to see that it does.

# The Problem

We are in a global crisis, and the stakes are high.  Our actions at
this moment could have ramifications for centuries to come.  This is
not the sole responsibility of some cabal of elites; everyone from
activists to parents must act wisely in order to create the world we
want to live in.  Scholarly practices[^1] such as thinking, learning,
reading, deep conversation, writing, and research are imperative so
that we can reflect on our lives in order to expand our vision and
participation in the world.  The unexamined life [may be worth
living](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/think/article/abs/is-the-unexamined-life-worth-living-or-not/8D5EC7FCA494A8B9A5E5D02BADAB6182),
but it is a reckless way to live in the present circumstances.

However, we are surrounded by barriers to scholarly practices.  I went
around Downtown Bloomington, Indiana recently to ask 15 people about
what was getting in their way of productive thinking and effective
learning[^2].  Reported barriers to productive thinking included
hunger, exhaustion, stress, and distraction due to social media,
random thoughts, and noisy environment.  Reported barriers to
effective learning included lack of time, lack of tools, inadequate
teachers, and emotional complications with self-development such as
ego, arrogance, fear, and self-doubt.  I have not tried yet to
determine the barriers to other scholarly practices such as reading,
writing, and deep conversation.

The university could be a place which helps people work through these
barriers to scholarly practice and truly examine their lives.  Instead
it functions as a barrier in itself, defining the boundaries of who
gets to do scholarship, about what, and how deep they can go.  These
boundaries are primarily defined through finance.  Access for most
students depends on paying lavish tuitions and going into debt.  The
ability of professors to do research depends on procuring lavish
grants for the university.  Additionally, out of a misguided concern
for financial efficiency, research universities inhibit teaching
through absurdly large class sizes and lack of support,
accountability, or adequate payment for teachers.

# The Solution

Rather than trying to reform the university, I propose the creation of
new scholarly institutions --- institutions expressly designed to help
people work through the barriers to scholarly practice which they
experience.  (More generally, I hope to see the growth of a culture of
scholarship.)

In constrast to the lavish finance of the university, I advocate
frugality in order to allow access to as many people as possible. Just
like monastic practice, scholarly practice lends itself to frugality
--- it does not require luxury, just the essentials, such as lodging,
food, and internet, as well as specific, inexpensive tools such as
books, paper, and desks.  Through economies of scale (e.g. buying food
in bulk, and [community health
insurance](https://www.shareable.net/communities-self-insure-for-cooperative-healthcare/)),
we could be even more frugal together than is possible independently.

I now pose the following questions:

1. How cheap and accessible can we make scholarly practice without
   sacrificing health or scholarly focus?
2. How does this work fit into the history of scholarly institutions?
3. What is the first step to create new scholarly institutions?

If a scholarly institution truly believes in the power of scholarship
to inform action, it will use scholarship to inform its own action.
Indeed, one of the biggest hypocrisies of the modern university system
is that universities do not have "University Departments" which study
universities from a holistic perspective[^3] informing how they are
run.

Hence I propose an answer to the third question: the first step is
scholarly practice concerning all three of these questions, as well as
others relevant to the growth of a culture of scholarly practice. In
other words, I propose a scholarly project to investigate institutions
and cultures of scholarly practice, with an eye to the creation and
stewardship of these institutions and cultures.

# The Proposal

I suggest to aim for an in-person three-month workshop in the Summer
of 2023 to engage in scholarly practices regarding cultures and
institutions of scholarship.

### Tentative schedule:

<dl>
<dt>Month 1:</dt>
<dd>We study the history of cultures and institutions of
         scholarly practice.  This includes the history of
         universities and monasteries, Plato's Academy, etc.  Central
         scholarly practice: reading.</dd>

<dt>Month 2:</dt>
<dd>We study the barriers to scholarly practice existing in the
         world today.  This includes the new field called Critical
         Universty Studies, as well as our own research, both through
         reading and empirical methods.  Central scholarly practice:
         research.</dd>

<dt>Month 3:</dt>
<dd>Informed by the first two months of reading and research, we
         set into motion plans to catalyze scholarly practice.
         Participants will explore ideas, validate business plans, and
         start building.  Central scholarly practice: activism /
         social entrepreneurship.</dd>
</dl>

### Tentative principles for the workshop:

<dl>
<dt>Free:</dt>
<dd>Participants are not obliged to pay anything, as they are doing
  a public service.  All expenses will be covered by voluntary
  contributions from both participants and donors.</dd>
<dt>Frugal:</dt>
<dd>We will reduce expenses as much as possible in order to admit
    as many participants as possible.</dd>

<dt>Democratic:</dt>
<dd>Participants will be in charge of the workshop, including
            writing the budget.</dd>

<dt>Experimental:</dt>
<dd>Without the pressures of the university (grades,
              publishing, etc.), we will be free to experiment in our
              practice of scholarship.  We will use this freedom to
              try out different arrangements to see what works.</dd>
			  
<dt>Focused environment:</dt>
<dd>We recognize that focus, or attention is a
                     crucial resource for learning.  Thus we will do
                     our best to facilitate focus, e.g. by actively
                     reducing distractions (such as social media) and
                     eating healthy food.</dd>
					 
<dt>Inclusive Admissions:</dt>
<dd>Admissions will be based first and foremost on
                      how well a person can live in community and work
                      with others.  Then if we cannot procure enough
                      funding to admit everyone who meets this first
                      criterion, we will choose who to admit based on
                      how helpful we think they will be to the
                      project.</dd>

<dt>No Absentee Donors:</dt>
<dd>Anyone who donates more than $5000 must visit the
                    workshop for at least a couple days so the
                    participants can get to know them.  This way the
                    inevitable influence of the donor will never be
                    hidden from the participants.  In exceptional circumstances, a remote visit may suffice. </dd>
</dl>					
					 
If successful, the workshop will make significant progress in our
understanding of scholarly practice, its history, and how it can be
catalyzed, and it will end with several projects set in motion.
Furthermore, the workshop itself will serve as a case study of
scholarship outside the university which can inform future projects.
Finally, through the workshop a scholarly culture will grow which will
extend beyond the end of the workshop.

We are now led to the next question: how will this proposal come to
reality?

# The plan

By putting out this very text, I am sending out a call for action.
**If you want to be part of this project, email me at
[contact@scholarship-workshop-2023.org](mailto:contact@scholarship-workshop-2023.org)
to get in touch.**  I will personally be unavailable June 13 - August
19, but my collaborators Beth Gebresilasie and Jimmy Mathews will
still be checking the account during this time.  From the people who
contact us we will choose a committee to organize the event: in
September the committee will start organizing virtual and in-person
events building momentum towards the Summer 2023 workshop, as well as
finding a space, fundraising, marketing, and admissions.  The
committee may also find something better to do instead of the
workshop.  I am open to that possibility as well, as one never can
predict where serious scholarship will lead.

# Conclusion

We need scholarly practices in order to respond to the present global
crisis in a manner worthy of human dignity.  There are currently many
barriers to it, but institutions and cultures can be developed to help
people surmount these barriers.  I propose to begin with a 3-month
workshop pursuing scholarly practice regarding scholarly practice:
this will have a dual effect as it will both help us to better
understand how to catalyze scholarly practice, and it will itself
catalyze scholarly practice.  Essentially, this workshop is a way of
"investing" scholarly practice into the engendering of much more
scholarly practice.  Anyone who enjoys and values scholarly practice
should be gratified by this opportunity to engender what they value by
means of doing they enjoy.

I encourage feedback and public responses to this piece, especially
ones that are critical of it.  If I am wrong in a major way, I would
sincerely like to know.  I also encourage any and all questions as we
will be making an FAQ section based on which questions are frequently
asked.

# Notes

[^1]:
    I write "scholarly *practices*" to emphasize that scholarship
    consists of physical practices like reading and thinking which
    have material requirements, such as food, time, distraction-free
    environment, etc.  Too often the physicality of scholarship is
    minimized, and hence the material requirements are not provided.
	
[^2]:
    The exact questions I asked (among others) were "What are three to
    five things that get in your way of thnking productively?"  and
    "What are three to five things that get in your way of learning
    effectively?"
	
[^3]:
	I am aware that "higher education management" departments exist.
    However, these departments merely study how to manage universities
    as businesses; they lack a holistic view of the history and social
    function of universities.  I am also aware of a new field called
    "critical university studies".  However, it appears to me that
    this field is primarily focused on the role of higher education in
    contemporary society, and is not directly concerned with the past
    or future of scholarly institutions or cultures.
